class1-outline.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Class 1 - Intro to NLP and Why We Need Cloud
---

# Class 1: Intro to NLP and Why We Need Cloud

[Link to Week 1 Presentation](https://drive.google.com/file/d/10v31mP6EA5kx8ItQcPfiRpI8mjod0O-0/view?usp=sharing)

# Pre-Class Reading List: Getting Started with Essential Tools

Welcome! To help you get the most out of this course, we recommend familiarizing yourself with the following tools beforehand. These platforms will be valuable for learning, collaboration, and completing assignments.

---

## 1. AI Chat Interfaces: ChatGPT & Google Gemini

**What are they?**
Large Language Models (LLMs) like ChatGPT (from OpenAI) and Gemini (from Google) are powerful AI tools that can understand and generate human-like text. You can use them to ask questions, brainstorm ideas, summarize text, write code snippets, debug errors, and much more.

**How to Use Them Effectively:**
* **Be Specific:** Clearly define what you want the AI to do. Provide context and details in your prompts.
* **Iterate:** Don't expect the perfect answer on the first try. Refine your prompts based on the responses.
* **Verify Information:** AI models can sometimes make mistakes ("hallucinate"). Always double-check critical information, especially facts or code, using reliable sources.
* **Understand Limitations:** They are tools to *assist* your thinking, not replace it. Use them ethically and responsibly.

**Recommended Resources:**
* **Video:** [ChatGPT Tutorial for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JTxsNm9IdYU) (Covers general concepts applicable to Gemini too)
* **Video:** [Google Gemini Tutorial for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RxCZhltR9Cw)
* **Article:** [Google's Gemini: A Guide for Beginners](https://blog.google/technology/google-deepmind/gemini-model-thinking-updates-march-2025/)
* **Practice:** Experiment! Ask questions related to topics you know, try different prompt styles, and see how they respond.

---

## 2. GitHub

**What is it?**
GitHub is a web-based platform for version control using Git. It's essential for managing code projects, collaborating with others, and showcasing your work. Think of it as a "Google Docs" for code, but with much more power for tracking changes and managing different versions.

**How to Use It:**
* **Repositories (Repos):** Each project lives in its own repository.
* **Commits:** Save snapshots of your changes with descriptive messages.
* **Push/Pull:** Send your local changes to GitHub (push) or get updates from GitHub (pull).
* **Branches:** Work on new features or fixes without affecting the main codebase.
* **Collaboration:** Fork repositories to create your own copy, make changes, and propose them back using Pull Requests.

**Recommended Resources:**
* **Video:** [Git for Dummies](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mJ-qvsxPHpY)
[Git and GitHub for Beginners using Application](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MaqVvXv6zrU)
* **Interactive Tutorial:** [GitHub Skills](https://skills.github.com/) (Hands-on labs to learn Git and GitHub)
* **Documentation:** [GitHub Docs - Quickstart](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart)
* **Action:** Create a free GitHub account and try creating your first repository.

---

## 3. Google Colaboratory (Colab)

**What is it?**
Google Colab provides free access to a Jupyter Notebook environment that runs entirely in the cloud. It's excellent for writing and executing Python code, especially for data analysis, machine learning, and visualization, without needing any setup on your local machine. You can even access free GPU resources for computationally intensive tasks.

**How to Use It:**
* **Notebooks:** Files (`.ipynb`) containing live code cells, text cells (like this one!), and visualizations.
* **Code Cells:** Write and run Python code directly in your browser.
* **Text Cells:** Use Markdown to add explanations, structure your work, and embed images or links.
* **Runtime:** Connect to Google's servers (CPU, GPU, or TPU) to execute your code.
* **Integration:** Easily mounts with your Google Drive to access files.

**Recommended Resources:**
* **Video:** [Google Colab Tutorial for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RLYoEyIHL6A)
* **Official Intro:** [Welcome To Colaboratory](https://colab.research.google.com/) (Interactive tour within Colab)
* **Documentation:** [Overview of Colaboratory Features](https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/basic_features_overview.ipynb)
* **Action:** Open Colab, create a new notebook, and try running a simple Python command like `print("Hello, Colab!")`.

---

## 4. NotebookLM

**What is it?**
NotebookLM (from Google Labs) is an AI-powered research and writing assistant. You upload your existing documents (notes, PDFs, Google Docs, text files), and NotebookLM becomes an expert *only* on that information. You can then ask questions, generate summaries, brainstorm ideas, or create outlines based *solely* on the sources you provided. It's great for synthesizing information from readings or personal notes.

**How to Use It:**
* **Upload Sources:** Add your relevant documents (lecture notes, research papers, readings).
* **Ask Questions:** Query your sources directly (e.g., "What are the main arguments in document X?", "Compare the approaches in source A and source B").
* **Generate Ideas:** Ask it to brainstorm based on the content or create outlines.
* **Source Grounding:** NotebookLM always cites the specific passages in your uploaded documents that support its answers, making verification easy.

**Recommended Resources:**
* **Video:** [Introducing NotebookLM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EOmgC3-hznM)
* **Official Guide:** [NotebookLM Guide](https://notebooklm.google.com/guide)
* **Blog Post:** [NotebookLM: An AI-first notebook grounded in your sources](https://blog.google/technology/ai/notebooklm-google-ai/)
* **Action:** Try uploading a PDF or pasting some text notes into NotebookLM and ask it a few questions about the content.

---

Please take some time to explore these tools before our first class. Don't worry about becoming an expert overnight – the goal is simply to get comfortable with the basics. We'll be using them throughout the course!

## Assignment

*   [View Class 1 Assignment Details](./class1-assignment.md)

Commit message:

Update class1 outline with materials link and remove private file

class1-outline.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Class 1 - Intro to NLP and Why We Need Cloud
---

# Class 1: Intro to NLP and Why We Need Cloud

[Link to Week 1 Presentation](https://drive.google.com/file/d/10v31mP6EA5kx8ItQcPfiRpI8mjod0O-0/view?usp=sharing)

## Class 1 Materials

All materials for Class 1, including slides, readings, and recording, can be found at the following link:

[Class 1 Materials Folder](https://1drv.ms/f/s!AhVxHmatz-M7jelQDGAX5JKgCjeufw?e=tX3Spg)

---

# Pre-Class Reading List: Getting Started with Essential Tools

Welcome! To help you get the most out of this course, we recommend familiarizing yourself with the following tools beforehand. These platforms will be valuable for learning, collaboration, and completing assignments.

---

## 1. AI Chat Interfaces: ChatGPT & Google Gemini

**What are they?**
Large Language Models (LLMs) like ChatGPT (from OpenAI) and Gemini (from Google) are powerful AI tools that can understand and generate human-like text. You can use them to ask questions, brainstorm ideas, summarize text, write code snippets, debug errors, and much more.

**How to Use Them Effectively:**
* **Be Specific:** Clearly define what you want the AI to do. Provide context and details in your prompts.
* **Iterate:** Don't expect the perfect answer on the first try. Refine your prompts based on the responses.
* **Verify Information:** AI models can sometimes make mistakes ("hallucinate"). Always double-check critical information, especially facts or code, using reliable sources.
* **Understand Limitations:** They are tools to *assist* your thinking, not replace it. Use them ethically and responsibly.

**Recommended Resources:**
* **Video:** [ChatGPT Tutorial for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JTxsNm9IdYU) (Covers general concepts applicable to Gemini too)
* **Video:** [Google Gemini Tutorial for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RxCZhltR9Cw)
* **Article:** [Google's Gemini: A Guide for Beginners](https://blog.google/technology/google-deepmind/gemini-model-thinking-updates-march-2025/)
* **Practice:** Experiment! Ask questions related to topics you know, try different prompt styles, and see how they respond.

---

## 2. GitHub

**What is it?**
GitHub is a web-based platform for version control using Git. It's essential for managing code projects, collaborating with others, and showcasing your work. Think of it as a "Google Docs" for code, but with much more power for tracking changes and managing different versions.

**How to Use It:**
* **Repositories (Repos):** Each project lives in its own repository.
* **Commits:** Save snapshots of your changes with descriptive messages.
* **Push/Pull:** Send your local changes to GitHub (push) or get updates from GitHub (pull).
* **Branches:** Work on new features or fixes without affecting the main codebase.
* **Collaboration:** Fork repositories to create your own copy, make changes, and propose them back using Pull Requests.

**Recommended Resources:**
* **Video:** [Git for Dummies](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mJ-qvsxPHpY)
[Git and GitHub for Beginners using Application](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MaqVvXv6zrU)
* **Interactive Tutorial:** [GitHub Skills](https://skills.github.com/) (Hands-on labs to learn Git and GitHub)
* **Documentation:** [GitHub Docs - Quickstart](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart)
* **Action:** Create a free GitHub account and try creating your first repository.

---

## 3. Google Colaboratory (Colab)

**What is it?**
Google Colab provides free access to a Jupyter Notebook environment that runs entirely in the cloud. It's excellent for writing and executing Python code, especially for data analysis, machine learning, and visualization, without needing any setup on your local machine. You can even access free GPU resources for computationally intensive tasks.

**How to Use It:**
* **Notebooks:** Files (`.ipynb`) containing live code cells, text cells (like this one!), and visualizations.
* **Code Cells:** Write and run Python code directly in your browser.
* **Text Cells:** Use Markdown to add explanations, structure your work, and embed images or links.
* **Runtime:** Connect to Google's servers (CPU, GPU, or TPU) to execute your code.
* **Integration:** Easily mounts with your Google Drive to access files.

**Recommended Resources:**
* **Video:** [Google Colab Tutorial for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RLYoEyIHL6A)
* **Official Intro:** [Welcome To Colaboratory](https://colab.research.google.com/) (Interactive tour within Colab)
* **Documentation:** [Overview of Colaboratory Features](https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/basic_features_overview.ipynb)
* **Action:** Open Colab, create a new notebook, and try running a simple Python command like `print("Hello, Colab!")`.

---

## 4. NotebookLM

**What is it?**
NotebookLM (from Google Labs) is an AI-powered research and writing assistant. You upload your existing documents (notes, PDFs, Google Docs, text files), and NotebookLM becomes an expert *only* on that information. You can then ask questions, generate summaries, brainstorm ideas, or create outlines based *solely* on the sources you provided. It's great for synthesizing information from readings or personal notes.

**How to Use It:**
* **Upload Sources:** Add your relevant documents (lecture notes, research papers, readings).
* **Ask Questions:** Query your sources directly (e.g., "What are the main arguments in document X?", "Compare the approaches in source A and source B").
* **Generate Ideas:** Ask it to brainstorm based on the content or create outlines.
* **Source Grounding:** NotebookLM always cites the specific passages in your uploaded documents that support its answers, making verification easy.

**Recommended Resources:**
* **Video:** [Introducing NotebookLM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EOmgC3-hznM)
* **Official Guide:** [NotebookLM Guide](https://notebooklm.google.com/guide)
* **Blog Post:** [NotebookLM: An AI-first notebook grounded in your sources](https://blog.google/technology/ai/notebooklm-google-ai/)
* **Action:** Try uploading a PDF or pasting some text notes into NotebookLM and ask it a few questions about the content.

---

Please take some time to explore these tools before our first class. Don't worry about becoming an expert overnight – the goal is simply to get comfortable with the basics. We'll be using them throughout the course!

## Assignment

*   [View Class 1 Assignment Details](./class1-assignment.md)
