class2-outline.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Class 2 - Outline & Pre-reading
---

# Class 2 Outline & Pre-reading

This document outlines the topics for our second class meeting and provides recommended materials to review beforehand.

## Preview for Class 2 (Wednesday)

Tomorrow, we will dive into some foundational NLP techniques:

*   **Regular Expressions (Regex):** Powerful tools for pattern matching in text. (Module: [Link](https://1drv.ms/b/s!AhVxHmatz-M7jelViMEFPgq82MBNxw?e=xvIy20))
*   **Basic Entity Tagging (Named Entity Recognition - NER):** Identifying and categorizing key information (like names, places, organizations) in text. (Module: [Link](https://1drv.ms/b/s!AhVxHmatz-M7jelX5QCLPJXS_NKcdw?e=dwwfRC))

We'll cover the practical aspects and work through simple examples in class.

## Recommended Reading (Jurafsky & Martin)

For more formal background and deeper reading, these topics are covered well in the Jurafsky & Martin "Speech and Language Processing" textbook (3rd Edition):

*   **Chapter 2:** Covers Regular Expressions and Automata.
*   **Chapter 17:** Introduces Information Extraction, including Named Entity Recognition.

You can access the free online version of the book here: [https://web.stanford.edu/~jurafsky/slp3/ed3book.pdf](https://web.stanford.edu/~jurafsky/slp3/ed3book.pdf)

## Preparation Tip: Explore NotebookLM

To get a head start or review materials effectively, we highly recommend exploring **NotebookLM**.

*   **What it is:** A research and writing assistant from Google.
*   **Cost:** It's free to use!
*   **Link:** [https://notebooklm.google.com/](https://notebooklm.google.com/)
*   **How it helps:** You can upload course materials (like PDFs of book chapters, lecture notes, articles) directly into NotebookLM. Once uploaded, you can ask it questions about the content, request summaries, explanations of concepts, or even brainstorm ideas.
*   **Tutorials:** Find guides and examples on the NotebookLM website or by searching online.
*   **Cool Feature:** Generate an audio overview (like a mini-podcast) of your uploaded sources – great for listening on the go!

Consider uploading the relevant Jurafsky chapters or other readings into NotebookLM to experiment with this tool.

## Podcast Prep Materials

To help you prepare specifically for tomorrow's discussion on Regex and Entity Tagging, listen to these short podcast-style audio summaries generated using NotebookLM, focusing on key concepts from the Jurafsky chapters:

*   **Podcast 1: Regex Focus (based on Ch 2)**
    [Link: https://drive.google.com/file/d/11LCMOxXfLA6zSQtqAhczefup0JX19UH5/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/11LCMOxXfLA6zSQtqAhczefup0JX19UH5/view?usp=sharing)
*   **Podcast 2: Entity Tagging Focus (based on Ch 17)**
    [Link: https://drive.google.com/file/d/11MbJXO1al0zjpAyeiXslhDUmx3v7zqpX/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/11MbJXO1al0zjpAyeiXslhDUmx3v7zqpX/view?usp=sharing)

Listening to these can be a quick way to familiarize yourself with the core ideas before class.

Commit message:

Add link to Class 2 materials and recording

class2-outline.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Class 2 - Outline & Pre-reading
---

# Class 2 Outline & Pre-reading

This document outlines the topics for our second class meeting and provides recommended materials to review beforehand.

## Preview for Class 2 (Wednesday)

Tomorrow, we will dive into some foundational NLP techniques:

*   **Regular Expressions (Regex):** Powerful tools for pattern matching in text. (Module: [Link](https://1drv.ms/b/s!AhVxHmatz-M7jelViMEFPgq82MBNxw?e=xvIy20))
*   **Basic Entity Tagging (Named Entity Recognition - NER):** Identifying and categorizing key information (like names, places, organizations) in text. (Module: [Link](https://1drv.ms/b/s!AhVxHmatz-M7jelX5QCLPJXS_NKcdw?e=dwwfRC))

We'll cover the practical aspects and work through simple examples in class.

## Class 2 Materials & Recording

You can find the materials and recording for Class 2 here: [Link](https://1drv.ms/f/s!AhVxHmatz-M7jelRwZGyZihrAh0F_Q?e=cAVUZ0)

## Recommended Reading (Jurafsky & Martin)

For more formal background and deeper reading, these topics are covered well in the Jurafsky & Martin "Speech and Language Processing" textbook (3rd Edition):

*   **Chapter 2:** Covers Regular Expressions and Automata.
*   **Chapter 17:** Introduces Information Extraction, including Named Entity Recognition.

You can access the free online version of the book here: [https://web.stanford.edu/~jurafsky/slp3/ed3book.pdf](https://web.stanford.edu/~jurafsky/slp3/ed3book.pdf)

## Preparation Tip: Explore NotebookLM

To get a head start or review materials effectively, we highly recommend exploring **NotebookLM**.

*   **What it is:** A research and writing assistant from Google.
*   **Cost:** It's free to use!
*   **Link:** [https://notebooklm.google.com/](https://notebooklm.google.com/)
*   **How it helps:** You can upload course materials (like PDFs of book chapters, lecture notes, articles) directly into NotebookLM. Once uploaded, you can ask it questions about the content, request summaries, explanations of concepts, or even brainstorm ideas.
*   **Tutorials:** Find guides and examples on the NotebookLM website or by searching online.
*   **Cool Feature:** Generate an audio overview (like a mini-podcast) of your uploaded sources – great for listening on the go!

Consider uploading the relevant Jurafsky chapters or other readings into NotebookLM to experiment with this tool.

## Podcast Prep Materials

To help you prepare specifically for tomorrow's discussion on Regex and Entity Tagging, listen to these short podcast-style audio summaries generated using NotebookLM, focusing on key concepts from the Jurafsky chapters:

*   **Podcast 1: Regex Focus (based on Ch 2)**
    [Link: https://drive.google.com/file/d/11LCMOxXfLA6zSQtqAhczefup0JX19UH5/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/11LCMOxXfLA6zSQtqAhczefup0JX19UH5/view?usp=sharing)
*   **Podcast 2: Entity Tagging Focus (based on Ch 17)**
    [Link: https://drive.google.com/file/d/11MbJXO1al0zjpAyeiXslhDUmx3v7zqpX/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/11MbJXO1al0zjpAyeiXslhDUmx3v7zqpX/view?usp=sharing)

Listening to these can be a quick way to familiarize yourself with the core ideas before class.
